---
title: Milestone 3
nav_order: 3
has_toc: false
---
{%- include vars.html -%}

# Milestone 3
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

-----

In this milestone you will implement most of the 'C' code that
implements the laser-tag system.

## Goal

Demonstrate the system working with a feedback connection (built into
the ECEN Development Board) connecting the output of the transmitter to
the input of the ADC. You will demonstrate the ability of your system
to:

  - detect hits on each of the 10 frequencies,
  - no false detects,
  - no bouncing of the trigger switch, i.e., register one hit for each
    push/release of the trigger,
  - display the computed power of each of the channels on the TFT with
    the provided histogram package.

## Organization

This milestone will be divided into three tasks that will be due and
passed off as recorded in Learning Suite.

1.  [Task 1]({% link _milestones/m3t1.md %}). Implementation and verification
    of the FIR and IIR filters (filter.c). Demonstrate all sets of IIR
    coefficients.
2.  [Task 2]({% link _milestones/m3t2.md %}). Implementation of the
    transmitter state-machine (transmitter.c), the trigger state-machine
    (trigger.c), the hitLedTimer state-machine (hitLedTimer.c), the
    lockoutTimer state-machine (lockoutTimer.c), and the code to compute
    the power in the output from each IIR band-pass filter.
3.  [Task 3]({% link _milestones/m3t3.md %}). Implementation of the detector
    (detector.c) and integration with all other parts of the project in
    order to perform the final pass-off for the overall milestone using
    the feedback provided by the development board.

## Software Coding Standard

All of the tasks comprising Milestone 3 are software tasks and must
adhere to the [coding standard]({% link docs/coding-standard.md %}).

See learning suite for a breakdown of the credit that you receive for
pass-off and source-code submission.
