---
title: Milestone 6
nav_order: 6
---
{%- include vars.html -%}

# Milestone 6: Creative Project
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

-----

## Overview

Now that you have completely implemented the laser tag game, do something
fun and interesting with your system. This milestone will be accomplished
as a team. Here is how it works.

1.  **M6 Creative Proposal:** Submit a short proposal (2-3 sentences is
    plenty) via Learning Suite. The proposal will be reviewed to make
    sure it is not too difficult or too easy. Once approved, a score for
    this assignment will be entered into Learning Suite for each member
    of your team.
2.  **M6 Report (Video):** Submit via Learning Suite your approved proposal text
    (2-3 sentences) and a link to a short video (2-3 minutes)
    demonstrating your proposed features. All members of the team are
    expected to participate in the production of the video.

{: .important }
When submitting an assignment, please use the _Submission Notes_ in
Learning Suite to paste your proposal text and a _link_ to your video.
Upload your video to YouTube, Google Drive, Box, etc. **Do not upload
the video file (.mov .mp4) directly to Learning Suite.** Make sure your
video link is publicly viewable.

**Your team is on the hook to achieve what you proposed, so start
early!** I can't help you with bugs or problems if you leave this until
the end of the semester. If you can't get your project to work at all,
it will be very difficult to offer much in the way of partial credit.

## Video Grading

In most cases, a well-edited video of no more than 2-3 minutes should be
adequate.

Here is the grading rubric for your video:

1.  Overall quality of the video. Please edit your video and make it a
    quality presentation: 25%.
2.  Demonstration of proposed features, i.e., do you demonstrate the
    functionality of everything that you proposed to do?: 50%.
3.  Creativity and novelty of your video presentation, i.e., is your
    video interesting and engaging?: 15%.
4.  Entertainment value, i.e., is your video fun to watch?: 10%.

-----

## Appendix

This appendix contains additional information that may be helpful
in the design and implementation of your creative project.

### Custom Sounds

If you have a custom sound in the form of an audio file that you want to
use in your project, it will need to be converted to an array of values
in a ".c" file. Follow the instructions below to integrate a custom
sound clip with your application.

1.  Identify a sound clip or record your own as an audio file. Compatible
    file types are: (.aifc .aiff .aif .au .flac .ogg .opus .mp3 .m4a .mp4
    .wav). Ideally, the clip should be under a second or two in length.
    [This online voice recorder](https://www.rapidtables.com/tools/voice-recorder.html)
    can create a ".wav" audio file.

2.  Place the audio file in the audio directory of your personal
    repository (e.g., ecen390/audio).

3.  Use the MATLAB script audio/audio2ci.m to convert your audio file to a
    ".c" file. The generated ".c" file defines an array of data samples that
    can be compiled for use with the application code. A corresponding
    header (.h) file will also be generated. If you look at the source to
    audio2ci.m, you will notice that the output sample rate is 32 kHz and
    that the output sample size is 16 bits.

  - Open a terminal window and change (cd) to the audio directory.
  - Run MATLAB by typing `matlab` from the command prompt.
  - From within MATLAB, open the audio2ci.m script and run it.
  - Select your audio file from the popup dialog.

4.  After running the script, move or copy the output files from
    audio/c32_16b to ltag/components/c32_16b. Remember to include the
    header files in your project code where you call the sound
    functions.

5.  Build your application and download it to the tag unit. Verify that
    your sound plays correctly. The sound should be the same as when
    playing the original audio file on another device. It should not
    play at a different pitch or speed.

### Wi-Fi

The ESP32 has builtin hardware support for Wi-Fi. Several networking
APIs are available for use in your application. Most likely, the
simplest path to connecting laser tag units is to use the ESP-NOW
library and protocol. References are given below to get you started.

  - [ESP32 Networking APIs](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32s3/api-reference/network/index.html)
  - [ESP-NOW Documentation](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32s3/api-reference/network/esp_now.html)
  - [ESP-NOW Example](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/tree/v5.2.5/examples/wifi/espnow)

To make networking with Wi-Fi even simpler, a net component is provided
in your starting code along with a working example that you can run on
your laser tag units. The net component is essentially a thin wrapper
around the ESP-NOW library. See the comments in net.h for more detail
about each function.

  - components/net/net.h
  - components/net/net.c
  - test_net/main/main_v2.c

### Bluetooth

The ESP32 also has builtin hardware support for Bluetooth. However, a
sophisticated stack of software is needed to utilize the Bluetooth
capability. References are given below to get you started. Using
Bluetooth in your project will require some amount of bushwhacking. The
TAs (and instructor) will not likely have pioneered a solution specific
to your project. Nevertheless, we are happy to help where possible. The
_nRF Connect_ scanning and exploration tool for mobile phones is a great
app for testing and debugging.

  - [ESP32 Bluetooth Overview](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32s3/api-guides/ble/overview.html)
  - [ESP32 Bluetooth Tutorial](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-guides/ble/get-started/ble-introduction.html)
  - [ESP32 Bluetooth Example](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/tree/v5.2.5/examples/bluetooth/ble_get_started/nimble/NimBLE_GATT_Server)
  - [nRF Connect for Mobile](https://www.nordicsemi.com/Products/Development-tools/nRF-Connect-for-mobile)

If you are trying to communicate over Bluetooth with a small, external
device from your laser tag unit, the Adafruit Bluetooth UART module
might provide a solution. Communication with the module is simple;
characters sent to the UART are transmitted wirelessly via Bluetooth
and vice versa for receive. Adafruit also has a mobile phone app that
can connect with their module or a properly configured ESP32.

  - [Adafruit Bluetooth UART](https://www.adafruit.com/products/2479)
  - [Android Bluefruit Connect App](https://github.com/adafruit/Bluefruit_LE_Connect_Android_v2)
  - [IOS Bluefruit Connect App](https://github.com/adafruit/Bluefruit_LE_Connect_v2)

### Accessing Additional Pins

Not all of the pins on the ESP32 module are in use. Several GPIO pins
are available for use in your creative project. See the
[Laser tag digital board schematic]({{media}}ltag-dig-schematic.pdf)
for more detail.

{: .note }
Not enough time remained before the start of the semester to add
break-out connections for unused ESP32 GPIO pins to the laser tag
digital board. If you try to solder jumper wires onto the surface-mount
pins of the ESP32, the risk is high for damage to your digital board.
If you want to use the unused GPIO pins this year, it will take some
fine wire, a steady hand, and some exceptional soldering skills!
